# ModulaToOberon
## Transpiler from Modula-2 to Oberon and Component Pascal

In the second half of the last decade of the last century, I found Niklaus Wirth's Modula to Oberon transpiler as binhex files on some ftp server, most probably it was the ftp server of the GWDG (Gesellschaft für wissenschaftliche Datenverarbeitung, part of the German Max Planck Society), where it is still (as of 26-Apr-2023) available at this [directory](https://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/languages/oberon/ftp.inf.ethz.ch/OberonV4/MacII/Sources/ModulaToOberon/). In the meantime, I have contacted the admins of that server and got the reply that they will keep the mirror but they switched the status of the mirror to dead in the [overview](https://ftp.gwdg.de/).

In the second half of the last decade of the last century, I found Niklaus Wirth's Modula to Oberon transpiler as binhex files on some ftp server, most probably it was the ftp server of the GWDG (Gesellschaft für wissenschaftliche Datenverarbeitung, part of the German Max Planck Society), where it is still (as of 26-Apr-2023) available at this directory https://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/languages/oberon/ftp.inf.ethz.ch/OberonV4/MacII/Sources/ModulaToOberon/. In the meantime, I have contacted the admins of that server and got the reply that they will keep the mirror but they switched the status of the mirror to dead in the [overview](https://ftp.gwdg.de/).

Nw's original version skips comments and presents syntax errors as error numbers. The latter was typical compiler behavior in early Modula-2 times (at least for those compilers written by NW's group). There should have been also a list, which explaines the meaning of the error number. This list was missing for the transpiler. I contacted  NW for help, but he could not provide any help, so I used Modula-2 compiler error lists, which were available to me (M2RT11) and guessed the meaning of the error numbers for the transpiler in the first version. Later I used BlackBox error elements for the error messages in the BlackBox version. I also modified it to preserve comments, eventually doubling them by collecting corresponding comments from both, the DEFINITION and the IMPLEMENTATION MODULE.

At that time (late 1990ies) I used Oberon-V4 and BlackBox in parallel and I tried to keep two versions in sync. For that purpose I used version and fold elements, which are available in Oberon-V4 (see the infos about Text Elements on this [page](https://ssw.jku.at/Research/Projects/OberonDownloads.html). The links to the Linz FTP-server are currently (as of 22-Jul-2023) defunc, but the corresponding files can be found in the 78.1 MB [archive](https://ssw.jku.at/Research/Projects/Oberon.zip) linked as "Oberon from the Linz server" on this [page](https://ssw.jku.at/Research/Projects/Oberon.html). I include the BlackBox StdCoded file m2o.txt. Sorrily the importer for the *.Eth files of the current BlackBox version does not import the fold elements correcty and cannot handle the V4 version elements. So you have to decode it in [BlackBox](https://blackboxframework.org/index.php) and then use Oberon-V4 to switch to the correct version and then go back to BlackBox to import these files. I'll try my best in the next time to manually correct these problems and provide the BlackBox versions directly.
